---
layout: trip
title: 'Trip Report: Kendall Knob Ski Tour'
date: 2022-02-20
state: Washington
area: Snoqualmie
type: skiing
published: true
popularity: 3
categories:
  - skiing
  - washington
  - snoqualmie
image:
  path: /assets/images/trips/kendall-knob-thumb.jpg
  width: 175
  height: 131
cover: kendall-knob
---

It was another weekend of conservative skiing due to avalanche conditions, so
we decided to explore the Kendall Knob area and try to stick to the trees as
much as possible.

The danger level was moderate the night we made our decision, but it changed to
High over night and we forgot to recheck it the morning of the tour. Had we
known that we would have made different decisions, but thankful we had the
opportunity to learn without consequence this time around.

{: {{site.data.css.tip-box}} }
> **Note:** Remember to check the [avalanche forecast](https://nwac.us/) the
> morning of the tour, as a change in overnight conditions can cause the danger
> report to adjust.

## The Approach

We parked on WA-906 and had a nice chat with the family next to us getting
ready to do some resort skiing, before heading towards the PCT North Trailhead.

![Kendall Trees Approach](/assets/images/trips/kendall-knob-approach.jpg "Kendall Trees Approach"){: .shadow-5.oversized}{: loading="lazy"} <small><i>Working our way up through the Kendall trees, making good time.</i></small>

We worked our way up through the trees, making good time and passing a couple
parties on the way. We shared our respective objectives for the day, discussing
our thoughts on the snow conditions.

Just as we neared the top of the trees, we saw a skiier dropping down through
trees, the powdery turns looked like fun.

![Kendall ski lines](/assets/images/trips/kendall-knob-ski-lines.jpg "Kendall ski lines"){: .shadow-5.oversized}{: loading="lazy"} <small><i>Ski lines above Kendall trees.</i></small>

We ended up going a little higher then we planned, but decided to traverse over
anyways and get a closer look before making a decision on whether or not to
drop back down to a more conservative crossing.

The steepness and exposure was concearning, but doesn't look too bad. That
said, we ended up misjudging it and got worse the closer we got. We move fast
and cautiously, spread out from each other, as we examine each step for
shooting cracks in the snow.

Gettin to other side and back into some trees was such a relief as that was the
crux of the day.

After traversing some more through the trees we reached the top of the ridge
and rip skins and decend down, getting a tiny huck off a downed tree, and
coming to rest at an opening the banks of the lower Kendall Peak Lake.

We then worked our way through terrain that was at too low of an angle, making
it more of a wallow, before seeing tracks up to the backside of the knob. We
were happy to transition back into uphill mode, agreeing to never take that
route again.

We finally got to [Kendall Knob #2](https://www.peakbagger.com/peak.aspx?pid=2116),
but didn't tag the true high pointi. The view over I-90 was pretty amazing, you
almost forget you're so close to civilaization at times.

![Kendall Knob descent](/assets/images/trips/kendall-knob-tree-descent.jpg "Kendall Knob descent"){: .shadow-5.oversized}{: loading="lazy"} <small><i>Descending off Kendall Knob through the trees.</i></small>

We discuss the plan to get down through the trees, but it isn't long before we
unknowingly get off course. In the exciment of an open section we ended up
following it too far right into steeper and denser trees.

We decided to stick it out, but while charachter building, it wasn't exactly
what I would call fun. Thankfully we both made it our without incident.

After what seemed like an eternity of tricky turns, we were relieved to finally
get back to the PCT and follow it out.
